Petra also known as the lost city of stone is made up of massive structures that
are sculpted right outta the side of canyon walls,
hidden in the remote mountains of Jordan and is one of the most underrated sites
of lost ancient human civilization.
And when I say that these structures are massive,
just compare the size of the doorways to people as he,
you can see here at some of the most famous sites within Petra,
but what is perhaps even more interesting than that is that even though most
people at some point have seen these iconic photos,
few people have any idea of what's actually on the other side of these doorways.
And in this video,
I'm going to show you some incredible images of what's inside these structures,
particularly the so-called re also the so-called
earn tomb. And of course the so-called monastery.
And I'm going to show you a few others as well now,
unless you've watched certain documentaries about Petra and I've watched a few,
but I was actually surprised to see on just how little is actually shown of
what's inside these structures. And by the way,
they certainly don't share it's in the public school system,
at least not here in the United States.
So unless you've taken it upon yourself to do research on this topic,
you probably don't know much about Petra.
Let me start by showing you how to even get into the city of Petra in the first
place at the entrance of what's called the Sikh,
a narrow three quarter of a mile long canyon,
or 1.2 kilometers and a is up to 80 meters deep or 260
feet.
One thing that's incredible about the sea besides its beauty is that the ancient
inhabitants of this site cut out a water channel that extends a mile and a half
through the sea.
And you can see it here on both sides of the sandstone canyon walls.
And when you finally get to the end of the sea,
the first thing you see is what's referred or two as the treasury,
which is undoubtedly the most famous site at Petra.
And take a look at the view from above of the area.
And also note that the arrow, which I placed, it's not precise,
but it simply just represents the direction of coming out of the seat.
The treasury though is massive. It's 131 feet high,
or about 40 meters and 80 feet wide or about 25 meters. And in fact,
it's so tall that the sculpture itself is twice the height of the carved faces
on the Mount Rushmore monument. And the precision is simply remarkable,
similar to the works of the ancient Greeks, but this is unique in its own way.
And is one of a kind, so the big question is how did they do this?
We can see evidence of chiseling on the sandstone.
And although sandstone is typically quite soft and easy to work with this
particular sandstone is quite hard requiring steel tooling,
which did exist at the time. And according to textbooks,
Petra was created around 2000 to 2,500 years ago by the NABI
tens.
This is of course debated because abit were essentially beta in or nomadic tent
dwellers. I for one do not believe it.
And I strongly suspect that the Nabit simply found this site and inhabited it
just like the Romans did when they found it later on and built upon it.
And as you can see here in a few examples,
but ultimately the original builders of Petra are unknown and there is a serious
lack of physical evidence to suggest that the Nat did this. Now,
this is not to say that it wasn't possible to do with people with steel chisels.
It certainly was possible.
And you can see examples of this in the cutout sandstone. Like I mentioned,
however,
the amount of time in difficulty to do this is beyond incredible to get a
better understanding of this. And without further ado,
let's take a look at what's actually inside the so-called treasury.
As you can see, when you walk up the steps, there are three doors,
two smaller ones on each side and a massive door in the center,
walking in through the main door. This is what you see.
You enter a chamber with three more doors. These doors are seemingly just small.
I don't know, closets chambers, tombs. I don't know what to make of it.
Leave a comment if you have an idea,
but you need to compare the size of these doors to people to get a better
understanding of just how massive this room is. And by the way,
if you think that this room is impressive,
wait until you see show you later in this video,
but also look at the incredible precision.
And of course the colors of the blended sandstone is simply beautiful.
But the question is, why did they build this? And what was its original purpose?
It's been called the treasury because legends go back stating that riches were
kept in stored here, but what its actual purpose was,
nobody can say for this is a view looking outside the chamber and you can see
the seek from which we would've come in at and looking left. And right,
there are two additional doors on each side. Like I mentioned yet,
I could not find one single photo or video of,
of what's inside them or how big they actually are.
And none of the documentaries I saw showed it either.
And I'm guessing that they are just too small rooms with high ceilings. I mean,
that, that's a question,
but that's not all because there is an additional chamber directly below the
treasury, which is now sealed under a locked gate.
I have no pictures and I've seen no videos of what's inside this underground
chamber either. But my understanding is that it's about 100 feet long,
a hundred feet wide and 30 feet high.
And some through 300,000 cubic feet of stone was removed in just that one
chamber alone.
And this doesn't include the millions of cubic feet of stone that was ultimately
removed from the nearly 30 large chambers located throughout Petra.
In fact,
the treasury only makes up 1% of Petra and take a quick look at this map,
looking right, uh, from right to left,
as it begins at the entrance of the seat and extends actually a total of 12
kilometers or seven miles to the so-called monastery on the upper left,
which I'll be showing you in just a moment. So leaving the treasury,
you see that there is an additional side canyon that leads to what they call the
street of facades homes and tombs carved into stone walls and here,
and see an example of one of the tombs.
And there were many found throughout Petra by the way,
and notice the evidence of chiseling,
but there are also homes and chambers that you can see here as well.
And it really makes you wonder what was once inside these places,
because if they can cut stone,
surely they can create some interesting furniture,
which is of course long since gone. But as we continue the path,
we come up on the Petra theater,
which was carved right out of the sandstone surroundings.
The theater's auditorium consists of three horizontal sections of seats
separated by passageways and seven stairways to ascend.
This theater could accommodate approximately 8,500 people,
which is more than the estimated 6,000 seats of the Amman theater within the
capital of Jordan, which was constructed by the Romans.
I would just love to have seen this theater at its peak before the sands of time
got to it. And I can only imagine how much work was put into creating this,
but as we continue on from the theater,
we pass more incredible facades and there are hundreds of them found throughout
Petra.
All of which would be incredibly difficult to construct with just chisels.
And this takes us to, what's referred to as the U tomb,
like I mentioned earlier, you can see the lower part of it,
which was added by the Romans,
but just how high up they went to cut this out is impressive.
But what you're about to see inside this doorway is simply amazing.
Look at that. It's difficult to even know what to say about it.
The colors of the ceiling from the cutout sandstone is astounding,
but the size of this chamber is also better appreciated when you compare it to
people inside of it.
What was the purpose of these cutouts on the sides of the walls?
What was the purpose of this room and what did it look like thousands of years
ago when it was presumably furnished or used for whatever it was not to mention
that a few hundred thousand cubic feet of stone had to be cut out and removed
and they did so with such incredible precision, as you can see.
But another question is why do they choose to make the ceilings this high?
It's one thing to create something that is meant to awe people,
which it certainly does,
but they certainly did not have to make the ceiling this high up to impress
anyone. I mean, even if it was just a few feet lower,
it would've been just as amazing yet.
It would've saved a ton of time and energy,
but your guess is as good as anyone else's as to what the purpose of this room
was. Academics will tell you that this was a tomb,
which is their explanation for most everything else at Petra.
And it's also their explanation for most all megalithic structures found
throughout the ancient world.
It's either a temple or a tomb as if that's all the ancients ever did was pray
all the time and plan their burials for their deaths down the road. Like,
come on, put that aside.
The so-called earn tomb is surrounded by additional structures on the left and
right, and upon a closer view, look at how massive it is compared to people.
Also note the weather erosion and various damage on the structure,
but this is not all that Petra has to offer.
And before I show you the monastery,
we must pass through through the city center, which I'll quickly touch on.
What you see here is referred to as the great temple. Yep. It must be a temple,
of course <laugh> but some 30,000 people are estimated to have lived in Petra at
its peak.
And what you're looking at is what's left of a massive complex of more than 100
pillars.
I imagine that what this looked like completed was probably beyond impressive.
And some people have theorized the possibilities,
as you can see here in this image.
So going from the city center to the monastery requires a difficult hike up the
Stonehill on foot. And as you can see,
the design and size of this is truly astonishing.
The so-called monastery measures 160 feet wide or 50 meters by
approximately 148 feet high or 45 meters making it 20
feet taller than the treasury and twice as wide. And again,
it's a must to compare its size to people to truly appreciate its eminence.
I'm not exact be sure how tall this door is, but wow.
And the step itself is up to our necks.
Perhaps there are some missing stairs that were destroyed long ago.
If you take a look at the front of the structure,
it appears to have some unique damage on the lower part of it is is this weather
related and why is the rest of it without damage? But getting back to its size,
take a look at the are circular part of the structure at the top,
and now compare it to a person that is standing on it. Isn't that incredible.
Honestly,
did you have any idea that these structures were this big before I ever did any
research on Petro? I already knew that this site was impressive,
but I had no idea that these structures were this big.
So the question now is what's inside of it. So let's look,
what exactly are we looking at a cutout with a small shallow stage,
with a set of stairs on each side and its size,
again can only be properly appreciated when you can bear it to a person.
What was the purpose of this room?
And why did they go to such extreme extent to build something like this?
All we were left with the a day are guesses, but of course go figure academics,
labeled it, a monastery.
Now people will say as to why they went to such extent to create something so
impressive is because, well, they did it because they could do it well. Yeah,
they could. I agree. Somebody could and did,
but perhaps this was done long ago before this region was as dry as it is now.
Keep in mind that this is one of the driest places on earth,
only receiving a few inches of rainfall every year.
It would make much more sense for this site to have been created further back in
time than just 2000 years ago,
perhaps to a time when the region received more rainfall,
just like what we've learned about ancient Egypt,
once being lush with vegetation,
just think if all of pet was constructed with a huge labor force,
with the slow and painful process of using steel chisels,
why would they do it in the middle of a desert when they would need an abundance
of water? And there is evidence that Petra is very old. In fact,
there was a new monument discovered in 2016,
found by drones and satellite imagery and is described as Heidi in plain sight.
All this time.
This massive platform is twice the size of an Olympic swimming pool and is now
mostly buried. Archeologist said is probably 2000 years old,
but I have a feeling that this thing could be much older than much of Petra
itself. I mean,
look at other structures around Petra that appear to show that some are indeed
older than others.
And as you can see in the example of what's called the OS tomb,
obviously it's heavily aro eroded, especially on the lower part of it.
And look at other images of the structures that seem to have far more weathering
than others. And again, notice their size. And while I'm at it,
take a look at other chambers found throughout the city of Petra.
They just make you wonder what the story is and what they were used for.
And I still can't get over just how awesome the colors of the sandstone are.
But one of the chambers that stands out to me is this one, look at this.
When you see the picture on the left,
you simply have no frame of reference of just how massive it truly is or how
high the ceiling is until you see it with a person, uh, within it.
What on earth was the purpose of this highly precise stonework? Seriously?
What is that like a portal or something? I mean, really?
What was the purpose of making this? Was it just decoration? And again,
why is the ceiling so high?
I think it's possible that Petra was created by the survivors of the last
cataly,
which of course I've shared details on that in prior videos that maybe perhaps
certain technology or knowledge was passed down from the survivors,
which was later used in creating this site.
And I'm not suggesting that Petra is 12,000 years old, either.
I'm simply suggesting there is far more to the story than what we've been told
about it. I also think that the location of Petra is telling a safe place,
hidden from outsiders and elements.
Ultimately the original builders of Petra are unknown,
and we need to consider that there is a serious lack of evidence to actually
suggest that the naans, which again, were nomadic tent dwellers, all the,
of a sudden became sophisticated and decided to construct this site.
This is of course a very debatable topic.
So definitely leave a comment and share your thoughts on this.
And don't forget to hit the like button and subscribe,
but I'll leave it at that. I'm Jimmy,
this is bright insight and I have many more videos to come on a whole wide
variety of topics. Take care of everybody.